Camoto: Classic-game Modding Tools
Copyright 2010-2013 Adam Nielsen <malvineous@shikadi.net>
http://www.shikadi.net/camoto/

Camoto is a collection of utilities for editing (modding) "classic games",
those from the early to mid 1990s.

This is Camoto Studio, the "main" part of Camoto which links everything else
together in a nice GUI.  If you are new to Camoto, this is what you want to
use.

The GUI currently supports at least partial editing of these games:

 - Captain Comic
 - Catacomb
 - Catacomb II
 - Cosmo's Cosmic Adventures
 - Crystal Caves
 - Dangerous Dave
 - Dark Ages
 - Doofus
 - Duke Nukem II
 - God of Thunder
 - Halloween Harry
 - Hocus Pocus
 - Hugo 1: Hugo's House of Horrors
 - Jill of the Jungle
 - Kiloblaster
 - Major Stryker
 - Monster Bash
 - Raptor
 - Rockford
 - Scubaventure
 - Secret Agent
 - Trugg
 - Vinyl Goddess From Mars
 - Wacky Wheels
 - Word Rescue
 - Xargon
 - Zone 66

The GUI currently has editors for the following object types:

 - Images
 - 2D Maps (overhead/platformer)
 - Music
 - Tilesets
 - Instruments (MIDI/OPL)

With editors for the following object types planned:

 - Instruments (PCM)
 - Sound effects
 - Plain text (e.g. story)
 - B800 text (e.g. exit screens)

In order to compile this program, you will need the following dependencies:

 - Boost
 - libgamecommon
 - libgamearchive
 - libgamegraphics
 - libgamemaps
 - libgamemusic
 - PortAudio
 - wxWidgets

You will need a version of png++ newer than 0.2.5.  At the time of writing, this
means the SVN version.  It should be installed system-wide.  You can download
png++ from <http://www.nongnu.org/pngpp/>.

This program and associated source code is released under the GPLv3 license.
It includes the DOSBox OPL synth which is Copyright 2002-2010 The DOSBox Team.

Known issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Some files are stored within fixed-size archives (for example the levels and
graphics stored in the Dangerous Dave .exe file.)  This means space can't be
made available if they have changed size after being edited.  For some file
formats this won't be a problem (such as levels, which don't change size) but
in the case of DDave, the graphics are compressed.  This means that if
replacement graphics are too complex they won't fit in the available space, and
if they're too simple they will compress too much, leaving garbage in the
unused space which the game tries to decompress and either crashes, or results
in corrupted graphics (this is because this particular file format doesn't have
an 'end of file' marker.)  Interestingly, the Camoto compression algorithm is
slightly more efficient than the one originally used, so even opening and
saving the DDave graphics without any changes will trigger this problem, as the
recompressed file will be a couple of bytes too short.  The only way around
this is to tweak the file until it compresses to exactly the right size...
